Consolidate low-cap Bybit market-health findings into one venue article (recurring-clip wash, scheduled bot, pump-and-dump) (#1184)
1712n/dn-institute: content/research/market-health/posts/2026-06-13-bybit/index.md

LMWR/USDT places 13.6% of its trades on one second of the minute, eight times the uniform rate, while the SOL/USDT control is flat. Combined with the balanced fixed-size clips, this points to a single automated process behind a large, non-organic share of the market's reported activity.

## A scheduled wash bot on a fixed clock: CBK/USDT

CBK/USDT (Cobak Token) is a low-cap Bybit spot market that, through May 2026, drifted inside a narrow 17% band and ended the month near where it started while about $448k changed hands. Volume with no sustained direction is the first hint of a wash: someone is generating turnover without building a position.

{{< figure src="cbk-price-volume.png" alt="CBK/USDT daily close and daily volume across May 2026, flat price with steady churned volume" caption="CBK/USDT daily close (line) and daily volume (bars), May 2026. The price drifts and ends near where it began while about $448k churns. No pump, no trend." loading="lazy" >}}

> In an organic market trades spread fairly evenly across the 60 seconds of each minute. CBK does the opposite: 36.6% of its trades print on second :05 and 38.1% on :35, with almost nothing in between. Together those two seconds carry 74.6% of all trades and 59.6% of all volume, about 22 times what a uniform clock would put there. The clustering is tighter still: within :05 and :35 the trades land inside a roughly 130-millisecond window, far sharper than discretionary trading could place them. The concentration is specific to CBK: two unrelated low-cap controls, GAIB/USDT and BOBA/USDT, stay near 3% on these seconds.

Reviewer: 130ms verifies as the p10-p90 spread of the millisecond offsets, but the text does not say so; state the definition so the number is reproducible from the article alone.

```suggestion
In an organic market trades spread fairly evenly across the 60 seconds of each minute. CBK does the opposite: 36.6% of its trades print on second :05 and 38.1% on :35, with almost nothing in between. Together those two seconds carry 74.6% of all trades and 59.6% of all volume, about 22 times what a uniform clock would put there. The clustering is tighter still: within :05 and :35 the trades land inside a roughly 130-millisecond window (the middle 80% of their millisecond offsets, p10 to p90), far sharper than discretionary trading could place them. The concentration is specific to CBK: two unrelated low-cap controls, GAIB/USDT and BOBA/USDT, stay near 3% on these seconds.
```

| | Recurring-clip wash (the case above, and Huobi/Senso) | CBK/USDT |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Footprint | a few repeated clip sizes dominate the tape | randomised sizes, no dominant clip (top size 0.5%) |
| What catches it | volume distribution and first-digit tests | time-of-trade: 75% of trades on two fixed seconds |
| Sides | balanced within the repeated clips | strictly split, sells on :05 and buys on :35 |

This is not a one-off burst. Every day of May, between 47% and 91% of that day's trades (median 79%) land on :05 and :35, across every hour of the day. Nor is it confined to May: the same signature runs in April (about 67% of trades on the same two seconds), so it predates the window.

{{< figure src="cbk-persistence.png" alt="daily share of CBK trades on seconds 05 and 35 across May 2026, all bars far above the uniform line" caption="Share of each day's trades on :05 and :35 across May 2026. Never below 47%, median 79%, against the 3.3% a uniform clock would put on two of sixty seconds." loading="lazy" >}}

## A pump-and-dump: MCRT/USDT

> The first two cases inflate volume while the price barely moves. MCRT/USDT (MagicCraft) is the opposite signature. Through most of May 2026 it traded in a narrow band around 0.000097 to 0.000106 USDT on roughly $57k of volume a day, order flow split close to evenly. On 2026-05-26 the daily high jumped to 0.000255, more than 2.6x the surrounding days, on a volume bar several times the monthly norm, then fell straight back.

Reviewer: 05-25 is already a ramp day with a 0.000117 high, so against the immediately surrounding days the multiple is about 2.2x. The 2.6x holds against the pre-pump days (highs near 0.0000971).

```suggestion
The first two cases inflate volume while the price barely moves. MCRT/USDT (MagicCraft) is the opposite signature. Through most of May 2026 it traded in a narrow band around 0.000097 to 0.000106 USDT on roughly $57k of volume a day, order flow split close to evenly. On 2026-05-26 the daily high jumped to 0.000255, more than 2.6x the pre-pump days, on a volume bar several times the monthly norm, then fell straight back.
```

The run-up is gradual then violent. From 2026-05-25 the price grinds up from the 0.000097 base over roughly 38 hours, then on 2026-05-26 accelerates into a near-vertical blow-off, topping at 0.0002551 at 14:03:37 UTC (+162% over base). The crash is immediate: within the same UTC hour the price collapses about 66% off the peak, back toward and then below the pre-pump base. The 14:00 hour alone carried about $59.7k on 1,821 trades, roughly 27 times the $2.2k median of a normal hour. About six hours before the top, at 08:14 UTC, MCRT printed a failed dry run: a one-minute spike to 0.0001474 (about 1.5x base) on roughly 19x a normal five-minute volume, which round-tripped within fifteen minutes. It is the sharpest five-minute up-move of the entire month, and it led nowhere.

{{< figure src="mcrt-intraday-pump-dump.png" alt="five-minute MCRT price and volume from 2026-05-25 to 26 showing the ramp, blow-off to 0.000255, and same-hour crash" caption="Five-minute high price (line) and volume (bars), 2026-05-25 to 26 UTC. A slow ramp off the 0.000097 base, a failed dry run near 08:00, a vertical blow-off to 0.000255, then a same-hour collapse." loading="lazy" >}}

> A pump and dump transfers money from whoever buys near the top to whoever was already holding. The buy tape shows who paid: 276 buy trades, about $14.7k, executed above 1.5x the base price, almost all within half an hour of the 0.000255 peak, at an average fill of 0.000185. By the next day the token had settled near 0.000086, leaving those fills down about 53%, below the level MCRT traded at before the pump began.

Reviewer: 0.000185 is the per-trade average fill. Weighted by notional the average fill is 0.000166, which puts the $14.7k down about 48%, not 53%. Since the sentence anchors on the dollar amount, state which average is used and give the dollar-weighted loss alongside.

```suggestion
A pump and dump transfers money from whoever buys near the top to whoever was already holding. The buy tape shows who paid: 276 buy trades, about $14.7k, executed above 1.5x the base price, almost all within half an hour of the 0.000255 peak, at an average fill of 0.000185 per trade (0.000166 weighted by notional). By the next day the token had settled near 0.000086, leaving those fills down about 53% per trade and about 48% dollar-weighted, below the level MCRT traded at before the pump began.
```

{{< figure src="mcrt-late-buyers.png" alt="scatter of MCRT buy execution prices over 2026-05-25 to 26, with buys above 1.5x base highlighted near the top and the next-day settled price below base" caption="Every buy trade over the event. Buys filled above 1.5x base (highlighted) cluster at the top; the dotted line is where MCRT settled the next day, below the pre-pump base." loading="lazy" >}}

> The move was specific to MCRT, not a market-wide event. Normalised to the start of the window, MCRT spikes to about 2.6x and falls back below where it began, while a liquid control, SOL/USDT, holds within about 3% over the same window. The crash five minutes off the peak was the largest single five-minute drop of the entire month, about 39 times the standard deviation of all 5-minute moves in May; the peak hour was the single busiest of all 744 active hours. Crypto returns are fat-tailed, so treat those multiples as a measure of scale rather than a Gaussian probability.

Reviewer: Name the return construction: on plain close-to-close percentage returns this is about 33x; the 39x is on five-minute close-to-close log returns.

```suggestion
The move was specific to MCRT, not a market-wide event. Normalised to the start of the window, MCRT spikes to about 2.6x and falls back below where it began, while a liquid control, SOL/USDT, holds within about 3% over the same window. The crash five minutes off the peak was the largest single five-minute drop of the entire month, about 39 times the standard deviation of the month's five-minute close-to-close log returns; the peak hour was the single busiest of all 744 active hours. Crypto returns are fat-tailed, so treat those multiples as a measure of scale rather than a Gaussian probability.
```
